So with that, we added our dummy meals, we added the meal model here,
now let's go back to our meals page there and make sure that we output our meals. Now of course for outputting
the meals, I only want to output the meals that match this category ID.
So if we have a look at the dummy data, we see that every meal has a list of categories
and here I'm referring to the IDs which are set up as IDs on the categories.
So we'll have to check all meals and find the meals which include the category of the category we selected
in the categories list.
So for that, we first of all need to import our meals in here. So for that, let's add an import here in
this file and let's import our dummy_data.dart file in the CategoryMealsScreen and
now with the meals imported, we need to find the right meals here based on the category ID we selected.
So we can add a new final property which we could name displayed or filtered or category meals,
I think that name makes sense and then you can refer to our dummy meals and dummy meals is available
here because we're importing the dummy_data.dart file where we expose this as a constant and the dummy
meals can now be filtered with the where method. Where returns us a new iterable and we can convert
it to a list with the to list method which only contains elements that satisfy a condition which we
specify in an anonymous function we pass to where. This function receives every item it goes through,
it goes through all elements in dummy meals, it receives each item that here is an input and we have
to return true if we want to keep it in the new list which is generated or false if we don't want to
include it in the new list.
So here, we want to return true if the meal we're looking at has the category ID included in its categories
and thankfully, categories is a list and there and on list, we not only have where But Dart also offers
us a contains method and contains returns true if that list contains a specific value. The specific value
we want to check for is the category ID of course. If that category ID is included in the categories
of our meals, then this meal belongs to that category. So category meals now would be our filtered categories
and hence here for the item count, we can now use category meals.length because that is the amount
of items we have and now we can start building our list item and for a very simple start, just to see
whether that works, I'll just return a text here that should output the name of the meal, so that
we can simply see whether we're identifying different meals before we then start on styling and layouting
the meals in an appropriate way.
So here, we can access category meals and then for the index for which this list item is getting generated
and then since this of course is of type meal, we have the title available here. And with that, we should
be able to save this and do a full restart maybe and now hopefully have an application where we can
indeed display the meals for this category we selected on the right screen. So now if I click on Italian,
I see spaghetti with tomato sauce, that doesn't look too bad, looks pretty Italian to me and if I go to the
dummy_data.dart file here, I indeed see spaghetti with tomato sauce is part of c1 which is the ID of
Italian. Now let's see if something else is part of c1, no. We have a couple of values that would be
part of c10 though which is summer, so let's see whether we also can display multiple recipes. If we scroll
down to summer and click on that, yes,
here we got three items.
So this seems to work, filtering and selecting based on the ID seems to work, we get no hamburgers though,
that's strange,
let's quickly check that, pretty sure we should have a hamburger. Classic hamburger has c2 as a category,
oh that's quick and easy,
that should be c3.
So
for the classic hamburger, let's maybe add it to both c2 and c3, yes
and now it's there.
So this seems to work,
now we can select different categories and display different meals based on the category we selected.
The next step is to work on how this is presented because of course this is not really the way we
would want to look at a meal.